.. title: Tristan Smith, Former BCCP Postdoc
.. slug: tristian-smith
.. date: 2013-11-18 22:33:35
.. tags: 
.. description: 


.. image:: /images/people/tristan.gif
   :align: left

| Physics & Astronomy Department
| Swarthmore College 500 College Avenue Swarthmore, PA 19081-1397
| tsmith2@swarthmore.edu

My research lies at the interface between cosmology and
gravity. Gravity has always occupied a unique place among the
fundamental forces of nature: as the ‘universal force’ it plays an
essential role in the evolution of the Universe, from the big bang to
today; as the only known force that cannot be written within a
consistent quantum theory its underlying nature is expected to help
elucidate the complete ‘theory of everything’; as the weakest force it
allows information to come to us to from events occurring at energy
scales approaching the Planck scale. My research concentrates on using
novel probes in order to address questions concerning the dynamics of
inflation, the nature of dark energy, observational signatures of
string-inspired modifications to general relativity, and the
fundamental symmetries of gravity (such as parity and Lorentz
invariance). Primordial gravitational-wave backgrounds provide an
unparalleled window into physical processes occurring at energy scales
as high as the Planck scale. In particular, the gravitational-wave
background might allow us to infer fundamental properties of the
processes that produce such backgrounds, such as inflation. To this
end, along with Marc Kamionkowski and Asantha Cooray, I have studied
how the direct detection of the inflationary gravitational-wave
background (IGWB) would enable a probe of the fundamental nature of
the inflationary epoch. Our work has shown how direct observations of
the IGWB will allow us an unprecedented view into the mechanisms
behind inflation and that there is a good chance the IGWB will be
observable in BBO. However it is possible that a non-standard
expansion history could complicate interpretations of the physical
significance of the amplitude and slope of the directly observed IGWB.
In future research I plan to address these issues and quantify how
well we may be able to remove degeneracies with a non-standard
expansion history. In addition to this, along with George Smoot and
his student Noel Swanson, I have begun a study in order to explore how
well we may use pulsar timing arrays in order to detect and measure
the properties of gravitational waves. Currently, pulsar timing arrays
are the most sensitive probe of gravitational waves and their
sensitivity is expected to increase by several orders of magnitude
with the construction of the Square Kilometer Array (SKA) radio
telescope which plans to be in full operation by 2020. Many groups
have explored how to use pulsar timing measurements in order to place
limits on stochastic gravitational wave backgrounds. However, less
work has focused on identifying how to use this data to explore other
sources of gravitational waves such as short duration bursts and
polarized backgrounds. We plan to articulate how best to use this data
in order to extract as much information about gravitational waves as
possible. The study of alternative theories to general relativity has
recently gained a lot of interest because of the observation that the
expansion of the Universe is accelerating. Many explanations for the
accelerated expansion rely on proposing a new source of stress-energy
within the context of general relativity (such as a cosmological
constant or a scalar field). Alternatively, the observed accelerated
expansion might indicate a breakdown of general relativity. Along with
Adrienne Erickcek, Marc Kamionkowski, and Takeshi Chiba, I have shown
that certain gravity theories [known as f(R)-gravity] that have the
potential to explain the current epoch of accelerated expansion, under
a particular set of conditions, severely violate observations of
gravity within the solar system. Our work has made it clear that it is
the non-linear behavior of the theory as well as its behavior on
cosmological scales that allows it to pass solar system tests. This
non-linear behavior gives f(R) gravity some unique observational
consequences. In particular, measurements comparing the bending of
light around an object and the object’s mass yields a determination of
a parameter denoted gamma_PPN. In general relativity gamma_PPN
= 1. However, in f(R) gravity the value of gamma_PPN depends on the
strength of the gravitational field around that object. Current
lensing surveys, such as the Sloan Lens ACS (SLACS) survey, provide us
with observations that may allow us to test whether γPPN assumes a
universal value or not thereby testing such alternative gravity
theories as f(R) gravity. In ongoing work, I explore how well such
surveys can test the universality of the value of gamma_PPN . Besides
providing an explanation for the recent epoch of accelerated
expansion, modifications to the Einstein-Hilbert action are expected
since quantized general relativity is non- renormalizable. One common
feature of these modifications is to introduce parity violation into
the gravitational sector. In work done in collaboration with Adrienne
Erickcek, Robert Caldwell, and Marc Kamionkowski, I have looked at how
we may detect parity violation by probing the gravitomagnetic field
applicable to the rotating Earth. Two current experiments seek to
measure this field: LAGEOS has measured it to within 10% of its
general relativistic value and Gravity Probe B will attempt to measure
it to at least this accuracy. In related work I have investigated how
the post-Newtonian equations of motion depend on an unspecified
gravitomagnetic field.  Using the fact that any alternative
gravitational Ampere’s law must respect mass conservation I have been
able to derive a general form that the gravitomagnetic field can
take. Using these results I have found the expressions for the secular
changes in the inclination, argument of pericenter, and line of nodes
applicable to binary systems for a generalized gravitomagnetic
field. This framework allows for a more complete analysis of
gravitomagnetic effects in these systems, especially the recently
discovered double pulsar system, PSR J0737-3039A. To read more, click
`here
<http://www.swarthmore.edu/academics/physics-and-astronomy/research/research-groups.xml>`_.

