### **Postdoctoral Fellow positions**

The Berkeley Center for Cosmological Physics (BCCP) at the University of
California, Berkeley, invites applications for the BCCP Postdoctoral
Fellowship, starting in the summer or fall of 2015. The BCCP Fellows are
expected to carry out independent research on topics of their choosing in
cosmology. We are especially encouraging applications in the intersection area
between cosmology, fundamental physics and astrophysics. The position is for
three years. In addition to being considered for the BCCP Fellowship,
applicants will also be considered for grant-supported postdoctoral positions
with BCCP members. Information on the BCCP's current activities and membership
may be found at the BCCP's website: bccp.berkeley.edu. Successful candidates
will have the opportunity to interact and work with the broad spectrum of
researchers in the Berkeley Astronomy and Physics Departments, and at the
Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory. The experimental and theoretical
cosmology programs at Berkeley include supernovae, galaxy clustering, weak
lensing and CMB. Candidates should have obtained their Ph.D. in physics,
astrophysics or a related field before their appointment start date. The total
duration of an individual's postdoctoral service may not exceed five years,
including postdoctoral service at other institutions. To apply, submit a copy
of your curriculum vitae, bibliography, and statement of research interests to
**<https://aprecruit.berkeley.edu/apply/JPF00561>** by December 1, 2014. At
least 3 letters of reference should also be submitted by the same date.    For
further inquiries contact BCCP directors Uros Seljak at
[useljak@berkeley.edu](mailto:useljak@berkeley.edu), Oliver Zahn at
**[zahn@berkeley.edu**](mailto:zahn@berkeley.edu) and Saul Perlmutter at
[saul@lbl.gov](mailto:saul@lbl.gov). For inquiries of administrative nature,
contact Melissa Barclay at mbarclay@berkeley.edu. All letters will be treated
as confidential per University of California policy and California state law.
Please refer potential referees, including when letters are provided via a
third party (i.e., dossier service or career center), to the UC Berkeley
statement of confidentiality: <http://apo.chance.berkeley.edu/evalltr.html>.
UC Berkeley is an equal opportunity/affirmative action employer. Benefits are
included. ********************************************************************
********************* **Cosmology Data-Science Fellow positions at all levels
from post-doctoral through more senior scientist available in new “Cosmology
Data Science Initiative” at Berkeley Center for Cosmological Physics.** The
Berkeley Center for Cosmological Physics (BCCP) at UC Berkeley is pioneering a
new “Cosmology Data-Science Initiative,” with one or more positions available
at all levels from post-doctoral through senior scientist, depending on
experience. The members of this group will explore a novel approach to
Cosmology Data Science (CDS): Each CDS Fellow will have half their research
devoted to a specific cosmology project of the BCCP, working as a scientist in
a research group with all of the expected goals of project planning, data
collection, data reduction/analysis, publication, and conference-presentation
of results. The other half of each CDS Fellow’s research will examine the
data-science steps needed to accomplish these science goals, and look for
approaches to redesigning these steps and make current and future science
projects progress faster and more reliable. Questions that the CDS Initiative
intends to address include: What are the current data science steps that are
slowing down the scientists and/or distracting them from their primary science
questions? What aspects make it difficult for a new member of a research team
to come up to speed and begin contributing quickly? Why is it difficult to
benefit from software that was written for a previous project, or by a
previous member of the science team? For the data-science half of the CDS
Fellow’s research, the Fellows will work not just individually, but also
together as a CDS Initiative team, with the goal of finding or inventing
common solutions to the problems and opportunities that they identify. The CDS
team will also meet regularly with Data Science Fellows in other fields at UC
Berkeley. The CDS Fellows will have the opportunity to interact and work with
the broad spectrum of cosmology researchers in the Berkeley Astronomy and
Physics Departments, and at the Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory (LBNL).
The experimental and observational cosmology programs at Berkeley include
supernovae, galaxy clustering (including baryonic acoustic oscillations), weak
lensing and cosmic microwave background, in addition to a broad theoretical
cosmology research program. Information on the BCCP's current activities and
membership may be found at the BCCP's website: bccp.berkeley.edu. The Fellows
will also find a rich data-science environment at UC Berkeley and LBNL, with
world- expert researchers in both computer science and domain science aspects
of this emerging field. We plan to make one or more new Cosmology Data-Science
Initiative Fellow appointments, in addition to the existing three. The
positions are for two years initially with the possibility of extension of up
to three additional years, subject to a performance review. Further extensions
beyond this may be possible subject to availability of funds. Salaries for
these full-time positions will be commensurate with experience. Basic
qualifications: Candidate must have completed all Ph.D. (or equivalent)
requirements in physics, astrophysics or a related field at the time of
application (except for the dissertation or equivalent). Preferred
qualifications: We are looking for individuals with strong scientific research
experience, ideally in cosmology, as well as strong interest and experience in
data science approaches. Additional qualifications: Must have received PhD or
equivalent by start of appointment. To apply, submit a copy of your curriculum
vitae, bibliography, and statement of cosmology and data science research
interests to: **[https://aprecruit.berkeley.edu/apply/JPF00562.
](https://aprecruit.berkeley.edu/apply/JPF00562.%C2%A0)** To receive full
consideration please send the material by December 1, 2014, but later
applications may also be considered until all the positions are filled.  At
least 3 letters of reference should also be submitted by the same date.  For
further inquiries, contact BCCP directors Uros Seljak at
**[useljak@berkeley.edu**](mailto:useljak@berkeley.edu), Oliver Zahn at
**[zahn@berkeley.edu**](mailto:zahn@berkeley.edu) and Saul Perlmutter at
**[saul@lbl.gov**](mailto:saul@lbl.gov). For inquiries of an administrative
nature, contact Melissa Barclay at mbarclay@berkeley.edu. Salary and Benefits:
Salary will be commensurate with experience. For information on UC Postdoc
benefits, please visit: <http://www.garnett-powers.com/postdoc/index.htm>. UC
Berkeley has an excellent benefits package as well as a number of policies and
programs in place to support employees as they balance work and family. The
Postdoctoral Scholar Benefits Plan (PSBP) provides a comprehensive program
which offers Medical, Dental, Vision, Life and AD&D Insurance, Short-Term
Disability Insurance and Voluntary Long- Term Disability Insurance. For a
complete guide on UC Health Benefits for staff, please visit:
<http://ucnet.universityofcalifornia.edu/forms/pdf/complete-health-benefits-
guide-for-employees.pdf>

